- [Instructor] Now that we have installed DockerCLI
using Docker for Mac, or Docker for Windows,
or you're using AppGet or YUM install on Linux,
let's get familiar with it.
Let's understand how we can use it,
what commands are available,
what can we do with it?
Now I'm in terminal here.
Now that we are in chapter two.
Let's make sure we are in the chapter two
directory of the exercise files as well.
But first thing I want you to notice is,
if you look at the top here,
this says Docker is running.
You can look at About Docker
and it'll tell you the version of Docker
that we are running over here.
And notice this is from the experimental channel,
or the beta channel.
So you can see that logo right up front.
I can look at if there are any updates available.
I can look at the preferences.
I can open the Kitematic,
the user interface that we talked about earlier,
or we can quit Docker, or we can restart it as well, okay?
All right, let's take a look
at what can we do with Docker now.
So first thing that we do here is,
we say Docker show me the version.
So it's 1.13.1.
Then I'm going to say,
Docker give me more information about you.
Okay.
Well, let's see what it shows us here.
When I see Docker info, it says 0 containers are there,
no running, no pause, no stop, rightly so,
because we haven't done anything.
It talks about, no images are there.
It talks about certain storage drivers.
It talks about plugins and we'll talk
about them a little bit later.
It talks about swarm.
Now, we haven't talked about swarm yet
but essentially it gives you multi-node Docker cluster.
We'll talk about that a little bit later.
It talks about the run times,
and out runC's before run time baked into Docker itself.
It talks about other options.
It talks about certain kernel version, operating system.
It talked about the OS type, the architecture,
a whole lot more description that is available to you.
Now we saw the Docker info here,
but I want to see what client version
and the server version I'm using.
So for that, I'm going to say, Docker version.
Now, here they're saying, the client
is using version 1.13.1.
As we talked about in the Docker work flow,
the client makes a request to the server,
but underlying it's a REST API.
So it even gives a REST API version here.
And it gives you some other detail about client.
And similarly, it gives you the server version,
and the server API version as well.
So you know at least, you can get some
basic commands available to you
on what you can do with Docker,
just to verify what version of Docker
are you using, okay?
Now, one of the golden nuggets that I would
love to share with you, which I have found
very, very helpful is, the command or the option
rather, --help.
So I am doing Docker, and I'm saying --help.
That shows me the complete list of commands
that are available to me, and that I can easily play with.
So I think that is fundamentally important.
Wherever you are, if you are lost somewhere,
just do --help, and it will give you the full
context, and as much help as possible.
Well that's a lot of commands here,
but if I scroll to the top here,
first of all, these are all the options
that are available, and all the options
are pretty self-explanatory.
You can look at them, and it tells you
what it means to do, and we will cover some of them.
The important part is, starting with Docker 1.13,
they have added these new management commands.
The commands at the bottom are more legacy commands.
But those were not very nicely organized.
The management commands essentially
gives you the ability where the commands
are very nicely organized, and they're
a lot more similar in nature as well.
So for example, let's see I don't want to see
the legacy commands here.
So what I can do in that case, is go
to the bottom first of all, and I can say
DOCKER_HIDE_LEGACY_COMMANDS=true.
That means don't show me the legacy commands,
only show me the new commands.
And then I can say docker --help.
Now in this case, all those legacy commands are gone,
and it's showing me only the new commands.
So that's convenient mode, where you want to operate with.
While today, this is an optional switch
that you're specifying.
Who knows, maybe in a future version,
they will only show the management commands essentially.
So it's very important to get used to this.
So, let's take a look at, what can I do with these commands?
So, my first one is, say image.
So I can say, Docker image, and once again
as we said, --help, and it shows me
all the image sub-commands now.
The first commands typically that you may
want to do is, you want to say docker image ls.
It'll show you the list of images on your Docker host.
Remember, client is stateless,
the images are on the host.
But in our case, because we are using Docker for Mac,
they're both co-located on the same host.
Now, what can I do with container?
Well I can do the same thing with container.
I can say Docker container ls, show me
the list of containers that are available.
And when we start running containers,
when we start building images,
these commands would make a lot more sense.
Now, let's do our command again,
and see what others are available.
So you can see, I can start looking at
what networks have been created by docker.
When I'm creating a multi-host docker,
then I can look at it, show me the list
of nodes that are available.
Docker has this available by which you can
install multiple plugins.
By then, you can start managing
multiple plugins, or Docker's secrets,
you know, as you're assigning secrets to your services.
We'll talk about the concept of services
a little bit later, and that way
you can manage your services as well.
We'll talk about stack, swarm, a lot of other
commands that are available to you.
But as we move along in this chapter
and future chapters, you will learn more
about these commands in detail,
and how can we be more effective and productive with them.